---
layout: default
title: MySQL homework 2
label: MySQL, syntax 
time: 2013-10-06
brief: A short essay with my Database Managemnt homework 2

---
#{{ page.title }}
> {{ page.brief }}
**************

+ Context:
This dataset contains information about the dynamics of the disease in an artificial city with its population of 500 people.   
The dataset contains the information about the temperature of air in the city and the number of people who are sick.   
For each day in the data there must be only one value of temperature measurement and only one measurement of the number of sick people.

+ Table schema:
Two table: Sick(year,month,day,nsick), temperature(year,month,day,temperature).   
Here year has 4 digits, month has 2 digits (1-12), day has 2 digits(1-31), and nsick can vary from 0 to 500,   
temperature can deviate maximum from -50 to + 50 (in Celsius)

1. QUestion 1: 
Find the highest and lowest temperature for each month along with the average for that month.  
Your answer should include sql query and the actual answer.

2. Question 2:
Table Temperature contains temperature records in Celsius.   
Create table TemperatureK which will have the same columns as table Temperature.   
Populate table TemperatureK based on the information which is in table Temperature by using INSERT ... SELECT query,   
where temperature values in table TemperatureK will be in Kelvin.
REMINDER: C + 273 = K

3. Question 3:
How many years of observations is recorded in the dataset and which year has the least number of observations?   
Provide the numerical answer together with the sql query to get that answer.

4. Question 4:
What is the lowest temperature in each year on any given day? Provide numerical answer and the sql query.

5. Question 5:
In which months of year 2006 were the total number of sick people more than 80? Provide the numerical answer and the sql query.

6. Question 6:
Find the day and the number of people who are sick in the data set when this number was the highest.   
Use nested query to get the answer. Provide the numerical result and the sql query

7. Question 7:
Find those years , months and the total number of sick people where this number was less than 100 and more than 50.   
Use NOT IN to answer this question.

8. Question 8:
Find those months in year 2003 when there are some days in that month the number of sick people was greater than 100.   
Use nested queries. Provide the numerical answer and the sql query. Use EXISTS to answer this question.
